We're running.
So, Charlie Smith, nice to talk to you.
Congratulations on another book.
Thanks.
Why don't we just enter this conversation at some point?
I read a PW interview with you, I guess, in 93 when you finished Chimney Rock.
And I guess that piece you recorded is saying that you saw that as the final...
installment in a kind of spiritual trilogy.
And I wonder if you still feel that way, and then what you see this novel as beginning, or why don't we enter it that way?
Yeah.
Well, I guess you could say that
Yeah, sure, I still see it that way.
I hadn't thought of it for a long time.
Of that spiritual trilogy, it's hard even to explain what I meant by that, but I certainly see this new book as a beginning of something else.
Somehow, it seemed like in earlier books that I had these characters who were...
kind of violently and obsessively groping through the world, trying to find something to sustain them, trying to shed something and then find something else.
And a lot of times, I think in general, they didn't really find it.
I mean, if there was any tragic dimension to them at all, it was simply that they knew they didn't find it.
I see a lot of that in this book, too, though.
Yeah, but I think in this book there's another side to it.
For one thing, in this book you have, once again, violent, murderous characters.
These are real criminals, not kind of romantic criminals.
But at the same time...
They're both capable of a very kind of complex and sustaining love between them, which is never really in any way adulterated or diminished.
And also I think that at least Jack and his kind of maniac relationship
disheveled, groping around for some sense of a larger dimension, is able to in fact come on something like that.
Do you start with characters here or do you start with a theme or story?
I'm curious.
No, I just start.
Often, I'm trying to think about, like, this book is a book that I began back in 1989.
I wrote about 100 pages of it at that time.
It was a different version, but it was, I guess what I got a picture of was, back in 89, generally this is how books start for me.
I got a picture of this married couple
having breakfast in a cafe, quietly having breakfast in a western or midwestern cafe in a small town, and just conversing quietly, and then getting up, leaving the cafe, and robbing the local bank.
This was just a picture that was in my mind.
I really liked the contrast, the
the smallest of the town, this kind of empty western landscape, the married couple just conversing about the meal, not talking about anything except what they were doing and then getting up without really even, the way I originally pictured it was that they went out and robbed the bank without ever mentioning that that was what they were doing.
They just continued their conversation about whatever it was they were talking about, the past or where they wanted to go on vacation next year, this kind of thing.
And in the midst of this running conversation, rob the bank, flee, and are eventually forced into this fire.
That was the original version of it.
What was this expressing for you?
I mean, this certainly is kind of a... I'm trying to find the right description here, but your feelings about where the heck we're going in terms of our morals and the indifference with which we... Well, I don't really...
ask myself, what is this expressing?
I mean, I'm just interested in telling the story.
And I like to get something rolling and see what happens.
I don't plan ahead in stories.
I don't outline.
I don't figure things out.
I don't feel like I have any obligation to, you know, to kind of improve the moral character of the country or anything like that.
I mean, they're moralists and preachers enough for that.
What I have an obligation to is to
you know, is to kind of release the imagination in this formal manner that we call a novel and see what happens.
And figure that that in itself is an expression of the time we live in and, you know, kind of life as it's going on.
Now, you introduced the word tragedy earlier.
And do you see these...
Do you see this, number one, as a tragedy, and do you see these characters as tragic characters, you know, with... I'm not so sure I see... In the classical sense, because then we have to have some tragic... We have to have some really decent qualities here, I guess.
You know, to be a tragic figure, you have to be a decent person to fall, I guess.
I guess.
I mean, I'm not... Yeah, I suppose so.
I mean, I guess you have to have some kind of decency.
I mean, I tend to see it as somebody...
You know, it's a simple definition of just a character who winds up a loser but knows why he's losing.
But knows why he's losing.
Right.
I mean, that's the difference between, say, a pathetic character who loses without knowing why he's losing.
Did you have a sense when you're writing these, when you're writing your fiction or even your poetry, we should talk about, too, I mean, who you're writing for, who your audience is?
I'm my audience.
You're writing for yourself.
Right.
I'm writing to have something good to read.
But, I mean, you don't visualize a reader out there.
No.
I mean, how would I know about that?
Well, you'd hear from them.
But you'd have a sense of who's reading your books, certainly.
Well, maybe.
I mean, I really, I don't know.
I mean, that's real life.
And, I mean, I don't really have any idea what goes on in people's heads.
And, I mean, I get, you know, information from readers.
And, you know, it's always nice to have people get moved by my books.
But that's not really my interest.
I'm really interested in writing something that really charges my batteries.
It really makes me think it's great.
Now, where you, and then you've already touched on it, and where you suggested in that PW interview that...
that previous novel was part of a trilogy.
So clearly you are thinking in terms of a corpus of work then, or that all these little... Yeah, yeah.
It's kind of like after the fact, though, is really what it... You know, I mean, it's like... I mean, I may write something and then I look back at it and say, well, maybe this kind of seems to fit with something else.
I don't really have that sense too much, you know, as I begin.
I mean, I tend to be...
You know, I mean, if you have this kind of spectrum of intention in art, where you have on the one hand, I have a friend who does nothing but outline.
He just creates a series of, an increasingly complex series of outlines until his final outline is the actual book.
And I'm kind of all the way at the other end, in which I don't really know what sentence is coming next, much less what event or...
occurrence or anything like that.
It often causes me a lot of problems.
I write myself into dead ends, which is what happened with this book.
I started it in 89, got about 100 pages done, and couldn't figure out what to do next and put it aside for several years.
Wrote several other books in the meantime.
And did you pick up where you left off?
Yeah.
I mean, I did pick up in terms of the timeline of the book.
You know, where I left off, I mean, it's been rewritten several times.
Originally, most of the first hundred pages took place in prison.
I mean, it gave the life of Jack Baker in federal prison.
When I revised an eventual final revision of it, I took most of that out, except in this kind of real selective way.
And we both have the same editor, and I read your comments on Alan Peacock, and I couldn't agree with you more.
What was Alan's role, I mean, beyond being the Good Shepherd and seeing this through the press and doing it well, not only doing it, but doing it well?
What's your relationship with your editor?
Now, I'm not a fiction writer, so I'm curious.
Let's say it's flexible.
I mean, time has passed.
I was in my editor, I guess, about 10 years or something, and we've done several books together.
Some he's liked better than others.
Some have been more difficult than others.
This one was a real difficult book.
This book has had the most difficult birth of any book.
He didn't really like the first version of it.
And he held it for a very long time.
That's Alan's way.
Yeah.
And it was too long for me.
And so we had some conflict about that.
The thing is, I like revising and I like the whole business of working on books.
And so I wound up taking the book back and really kind of creating another version of it.
Because of his reaction to it?
Were you agreeing with him or what?
The best way to deal with the problem that he was bringing up as far as he saw the book, I don't really like to revise in the sense like I tinker with the sentence or something like that.
What I like to do is just reimagine.
I mean, these acts of imagination really are the only thing that are interesting to me about this work.
And so what I like to do is just instead of, say, there's a bank robbery scene and let me try to revise this, just throw that scene out and write another one.
And that tends to be the way I, you might say, revise or rework book, is that I just throw stuff out and write some more stuff.
Let's probe that a bit.
I like that.
You say what really captures you most about this whole process is the act of imagination.
Can you articulate that at all a little bit, what happens?
Imagination is the ability to perceive the unacknowledged correspondences between disparate things.
In other words, it's the ability to see how things that don't seem to be alike are in fact alike.
But do you see them visually?
Do you see them in terms of words?
It doesn't have to be visual or anything.
It can be two words, feelings, concepts, ideas, notions, people, anything.
Imagination is the ability to see how things that don't appear to be alike are in fact alike.
My love is like the deep blue sea.
That's what imagination is as far as I'm concerned.
It's that ability.
And that's the ability that artists have, and that what a work of art is, is a formal structure whereby these acts are in place.
And for some reason, this ability, this quality,
is incredibly fascinating sustaining and enlivening to human beings i mean we go for it whether it's listening to country music or you know or thinking how a mosquito is like a hawk or whatever it might be we're just you know our socks get knocked off by this stuff i mean a guy hitting a ball with a bat i mean it's like a pure
Act of imagination, you know, that sudden kind of application of force going from one direction to the next.
Wham, you know, suddenly it's like our spirits are in the air.
These kinds of things, you know, dazzle and beguile us, and it's what we live for.
Is it something you can conjure up?
Just kind of turn on the tap.
Really?
Yeah, I mean, there's a lot of work involved, a lot of labor, but it's an ability I have.
I wouldn't be doing this kind of work if I didn't have a gift for it.
It seems like to me that the two things necessary for success as an artist, that is to say success being creating a living art object, is talent and drive.
And you've got to have both of them.
Now you write a lot of poetry as well.
Are you able to go to work on fiction today and then turn on the tap to use your image tomorrow and pick up on the poem?
I don't really do it quite that way anymore.
Originally, I used to just slap back and forth between them.
I jerk one page out of the typewriter, jam another one in and change, you know,
from poetry to fiction like that.
But now I don't really do it that way.
It takes the transition.
I stay with one a whole lot longer.
You know, I mean, I may work on fiction for a year.
I had two working on this book.
I was in fiction for a year without getting to write any points.
And then I try to, as soon as I finish a bit of fiction, have a break.
spend an extended period of time writing poems.
I mean, I don't consider myself to be more one side of the street than the other.
Both work is just as serious to me.
But what would you consider the more demanding?
I consider them both about as demanding as I can stand.
Really?
Yeah.
I mean, certainly among many of the novelists I've interviewed over the years,
You know, you talk to them, like somebody like Updike, for instance.
I mean, he craves recognition as a poet, you know.
They would consider the poetry by far the more demanding calling.
Would you agree with that?
No, I consider them both equally demanding.
I mean, you know, my life as a poet and a novelist are very separate lives.
I have two different publishers.
I've always kind of done it that way, where I just have completely separate life.
There are many people who know me as a poet who aren't aware I write fiction, and vice versa.
And that's the way I've always kept it from the beginning, entirely separate worlds, separate lives.
I mean, as time goes on, people become aware of it.
But, you know, I don't see myself as a novelist who writes poems.
or a poet who writes novels.
I see myself as a novelist and as a poet.
Both requiring equally, but nonetheless different skills, I would guess.
Yeah, different skills, but I don't see how one could be less difficult than the other.
It's like you may have more of a gift for one than the other,
I mean, I think that's what Updike's problem is, is that he's got more of a gift for one than the other.
I think you're right.
And so he kind of wishes he was a good poet.
And there are a lot of novelists like that.
There are a lot of novelists who churn out books and poems, and they really wish they were good poets.
But what they are is novelists, you know, laboring really hard, you know, to try to cobble together something that looks like a poem.
That's not what I'm really talking about.
I mean...
I don't think I would write poems if it was that way for me.
I'm not a novelist who has an interest in trying to write some poems.
I'm a poet who writes poems.
And when you're a novelist, you're a novelist writing novels, I guess.
They're separate.
Do you feel that the skills that you have in one discipline influence in any way what you do in the other?
Yeah, I guess I do to a certain extent.
I mean, in the sense that you want to get help from any place you can get it, you know, any place.
And, you know, with poetry, there's such a focus, an intense focus on language itself.
I mean, it's almost like, you know, kind of squeezing words until they, you know, crack into diamonds that,
you know, that kind of intensity to a certain degree can be brought to bear in fiction if you want to.
And I've used it.
I mean, there's, you know, with poetry, there's a certain kind of syntax, there's a certain kind of rhythm and a certain kind of tone that fits in a poem that you become able to use, whereas fiction rhythms and...
syntax are a different kind of matter.
They're much more ordinary, generally.
You know, if a fiction writer does, you know, a couple of, you know, has a couple of syntactical, you know, tricks going in a novel, it's like he'll have two and he'll repeat them, you know, all the way through the novel, like something like Dr. O did in
that book about the gangster.
Billy Bascade?
Yeah, he used these run-on paragraphs.
It was like he figured out this syntactical trick, and it was so exciting to him that he did it a hundred times, you know.
Well, a poet would do something like that eight times in one line.
Hmm.
A poem will require something like that, a kind of syntactical movement or a surge of some kind.
Well, as a poet, you get used to pursuing language and pursuing a movement through a line of thought with that kind of intensity.
And to some degree, that can be brought into a fiction.
And to some degree, I intend...
I try to bring that into fiction, at the same time remembering that, you know, the basic requirements in novel writing, I mean, the two basic requirements are to, you know, move the story deep in the character of both.
And, you know, that that's what's going on always.
Of course, you know, the poet, I would think that the expression, the imagery is something that you're going to find
There are a lot of novelists who couldn't articulate an image if their lives depended on it.
I really think that your work and your poetry certainly must have an influence in that respect, beyond the language that you use.
If we could talk a little bit about your southern, do you see yourself writing in any kind of particular tradition?
I do have a number of southern newspapers that take my features, and some Midwestern ones as well, so I'd be happy to work in a few of these regions here as best we could.
I mean, I'll tell you some of the papers I'm in.
I'm in Jackson, Mississippi.
I'm in Wichita, Kansas.
I'm in Knoxville and Gainesville and Charlottesville.
And I'm in Toledo, of all places, Columbus, Austin, and a few places out in the West, Eugene, Oregon, Salt Lake City.
So, you know, I'm happy.
If we can talk a little bit, I mean, you certainly have touched on a lot of regions where you've lived and where you've visited, where you're from, and certainly the things you write about.
You know, take it anywhere you want.
You did talk about the influence of Faulkner and Hemingway, or a lack thereof in that PW piece, and I did find that fascinating, and I wonder...
Yeah, sure.
I mean, I'm Southern born and bred, and that's powerful and important to me.
I've lived in the Midwest.
And where in particular?
In Iowa.
Uh-huh.
Des Moines takes me, you see.
Actually, you studied at the Writers' Workshop there, isn't it?
Right, yeah.
What year was that?
I was there around 1980.
Okay.
So go ahead.
I'm sorry I interrupted.
Yeah.
You know, and so I have, certainly, I mean, there's no way to not, I mean, if you're born a Southerner, it seems like to me it's hard for there to be any way to not be a Southerner.
You know, it's like being born in Italy.
something like that.
And it affects your life.
As an artist, I can't say that I have any interest in pushing anything that would be called a Southern agenda.
You know, I mean, and it's hard to know, you know, what, I mean, I think when people think of Southern, they think of Faulkner, you know, like Southern writers.
I mean, they tend to think of somebody like Faulkner or something.
Or Eudora Welty, perhaps.
Yeah, maybe Eudora Welty.
But, I mean, I think in a way what they're thinking of as Southern is they're thinking of the styles of individual artists as much as anything, you know, great geniuses.
You know, I mean, Faulkner was a great genius, and Flannery O'Connor was one, and Eudora Welty.
And these are artists with a voice so powerful and deep and singular that it seems to be representative of a whole kind of ethos.
When really it's representative, I think, of these people's genius.
You know, of their kind of, the penetration of their imagination into the heart of life.
And sure, they used certain, you know, utensils, you know, certain, you know, glitter and fencing that they picked up in the particular region they lived in.
But I don't think that business was particularly important.
I think that, you know, if Eudora Welty or Faulkner or Plannery O'Connor had been raised in, you know, Nebraska or, you know, Kansas or something like that, then we would be talking about, you know, do you think of yourself as a,
you know, a Kansas novelist or something like that, simply because that's where the genius is collected.
And, you know, I'm not that interested in something that would be called a kind of southern writing or anything like that.
What I'm interested in is trying to, you know, let my imagination take me as far as it will and take the reader as far as it will take him.
And there are certain Southern things that have been useful because they're close at hand.
I haven't lived in the South a long time.
My last novels, last couple of novels, well actually last three novels have been the main characters have not been Southerners.
The last two have not taken place in the South.
Well, that's a matter of setting.
I mean, that could be argued any way.
Right, yeah.
I wouldn't say that that's any kind of rejection of the South.
It's just that particular utensils and artifacts of the story that came with the story didn't happen to be Southern.
I mean, Jack Baker is born in Duluth, Minnesota, and the novel before the main character was born in Hollywood, and the novel before the main character was born in St.
Louis.
But there does seem to be a consistent kind of a character that you're interested in, regardless of where.
That may be, yeah.
And would you agree with that?
And I wonder, what is the kind of character that particularly fascinates you?
Well, I guess it's somebody who's kind of rattled and hell-bent and is trying to bear up under the weight of love's demands.
Of what demands?
Of demands.
Of demands, okay.
And you would say that that is, if there is a consistency in the characters that you've written about that, that would probably... I suppose.
I mean, I'm real reluctant to try to wrap my hand around a character and say, this is what it is, any more than I would want anybody to do that to me.
You know, and I mean, I suppose that, I mean, I don't, you know, I don't really try, I myself don't try to figure these things out.
I figure that's the professor's job.
Right.
You know, is to do that kind of work.
I mean, my stuff is just to get it down really honestly and, you know, with as much, you know, goodwill as I can.
And I don't know that.
I mean, you know, there may be things that are consistent running from character to character.
They seem to tend to be
in extreme situations often.
You know, I mean, in this book now, I kept trying to think about what crime was.
You know, that kept coming back into my mind.
In what respect?
Well, just what it is.
Did you come to some kind of an answer?
Not really.
I mean, I'm writing a novel.
I'm not writing a film novel.
I understand, but for yourself, to resolve the problems of your novel, you probably have to resolve the questions for yourself.
Well, it's a different kind of resolution.
I mean, it's kind of like saying, I mean, if you're married or something, it's like trying to ask yourself, what is my marriage?
I don't know if there's any answer to questions like that.
I mean, for an artist, what an artist does is to try to, I think, to try to throw out all of the kind of complexity as artfully and honestly as possible so that we have an experience, an imaginative experience.
you know, the reality of life.
And so that's what I was trying to do in this book rather than to do something like, okay, here's a definition of crime or here's a philosophical exploration of it.
Here's an imaginative experience of it.
That's what I'm doing.
You know, and I attempted to do that, you know, as fully as I was able to do.
You know, that was not my whole idea.
It wasn't like I sat down and say, okay, you know, like I had a topic.
What is crime?
This was just a question that came...
So among the thousands of questions that came through in the writing of the book, this was one of them that showed up often.
But you mentioned, again, to go back to the word you used earlier, tragedy.
conceive of this as a kind of tragedy?
And also, if that is the case, do you expect that there should be some kind of a catharsis here?
Where the exploration is about the nature of crime?
I'm not sure that this particular book I'd call a tragedy.
But is there a form of catharsis in it in any case, would you say?
Well, yeah, I hope so.
I mean, I hope that there's a sense of the circle being fulfilled or
you know, the story being told, you know, I mean, in that sense, I mean, in catharsis in the sense that, you know, possibly so.
I mean, if I define catharsis, you know, it's kind of like the, you know, the shudder at the root of being, you know, in kind of acknowledgement of having experienced the heart of things, it would be nice if that were so.
With this book, in some degree, every good book has either faint or profoundly that shudder of catharsis, of a kind of reception, acknowledgement, experience of the trembling heart of life.
And in that sense, I hope that there is some sort of catharsis at the end of this book.
I mean, whether this can be defined as a tragedy or not, once again, I have no kind of, there's no kind of formulaic or programmatic approach to these books that I figure, okay, tragedy has these elements, and so these elements must be put into the book.
Those are not the kind of concerns I have.
In writing it, I mean, in hindsight, I've written a book in which the two main characters wind up dead at the end.
You know, well, that's going to be either, you know, who knows what that's going to be.
It could be a comedy.
But did you know that?
Did you know that this was the inevitable consequence of what was going on?
No.
I mean, like I tell you, I really don't know what the next sentence is.
But you must have had a sense that they were pointing to this at some point.
I don't really go at it that way.
You know, I mean, to some degree, you know, there are times in a novel when the security in writing comes from having a kind of little kind of area ahead of you where you feel that there's a cleared space.
You know, that you're not just kind of jam up against, you know, the whatever, you know, just the unexpectedness, you know.
I mean, there are times in a novel when you kind of need that.
It can come like toward the end of a chapter when you get a sense of...
of the rhythm and the momentum and what's going to happen.
And it eases the imagination sometimes to have a sense, like, okay, this is going to end.
But for me, there are other times when you can't know that at all, when you're just kind of writing, and you're really kind of trusting
that there's a stronger rhythm, that there's a truer source underneath the rational mind that you're engaged with.
I mean, I've been a professional writer since I was a teenager.
Is that right?
Yeah, I published my first stories when I was a teenager.
I worked on newspapers from my teen years.
Now, where was this?
Where was it?
Yeah, where, basically.
Where were you?
Down in Georgia and in North Carolina.
And...
Could you give me a sense without, you know, giving me your whole CV and the... But you have lived in a lot of different places, apparently, that I, you know... Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Uh-huh, yeah.
Been in the South since 1600, been in Georgia since the early 7th, since Georgia began.
And pretty much down in the same place.
You know, I mean, it's an old family.
Still there.
Yeah, now they're kind of scattered around Georgia a little bit.
Atlanta and South Georgia, that kind of thing.
But pretty much have always been there.
Farmers, businessmen.
I'm the oldest stepson of Dean Daysmith, if you've heard of Days Inn.
That's my stepmother.
Uh, my father died last year.
He was a, uh, uh, he was a farmer, a businessman, owned a, uh, chemical corporation, uh, for years.
Uh, he was, uh, uh, what was that guy?
Walter Mondale was the marine manager in the South.
Oh, wow.
Uh, you know, various kinds of things like that, uh, horsemen, uh, all this kind of business, uh, you know, kind of like South Georgia guy, went to Harvard, uh,
My father did.
Let's see, what else kind of thing?
I mean, I left town to go off to boarding school when I was 14.
Up here?
Yeah, I went to Exeter.
Oh.
That's fair.
Went to...
Went to Duke, quit there, knocked around, was in the Peace Corps, wandered around Europe, around this country, in and out of trouble, a whole bunch of kinds of jobs, a lot of different kinds of writing jobs, newspaper jobs, PR jobs.
There was always writing, though, I gather.
Pretty much.
I mean, I really, well, I say jobs.
I really haven't really had much of, I don't really have much of a work history, if you want to know the truth.
I mean, I'll be 50 next year, and I suppose all together in my life I've put in, say, less than four years working on a job.
But I've had a lot of jobs.
Yeah.
That's a great quote.
I like that.
I had some real brief jobs, you know, and some of them have been writing jobs.
I mean, I've worked as a reporter on a newspaper job that lasted like 10 days, you know, various other jobs, a lot of freelance kind of work.
I've done a lot of physical labor kind of jobs, apple picking, you know,
Well, it all goes into the building of character, doesn't it, huh?
I suppose.
Well, you know, I've always just kind of, you know, I was always interested in being a writer.
And I think the only reason I've had jobs is because I had to make a living.
I mean, to a certain extent, I mean, I'm old enough to have come up in, you know, I came up in the 60s and kind of in those knockabout years that people had in the 60s.
You know, when young people kind of went out on the road, wandering around and doing stuff at a pretty early age, I think, I don't know what it's like now, but, you know, I mean, in my generation, people were, you know, I mean, you could go out wandering, you know, I mean, take off.
and do stuff, and you had this kind of hand-to-mouth way of trying to make a living doing one thing or another, wind up in a town, get a little job, hang out for a while, move on, this kind of thing.
And there was a lot of that going on.
I didn't have so much of a sense of trying to collect information or build up a repertoire of characters and things like that.
I'm immensely grateful for it now.
You know, to have spent time hanging around shrimpers, you know, in Apalachicola or, you know, whatever, or, you know, Hispanics in Spanish Harlem in New York City or, you know, people in Venice, you know, guys in the docks in Venezuela or something like that.
I mean, to have had these experiences are now extremely valuable to me because I can draw on them.
But it sounds like you were an early reader, a very appreciative reader.
Books, I would assume, are very important.
I mean, to me, I think this is the only, you know, I mean, people, you know, you hear people talk about, you know, like, you know, like, you know, I've done so much stuff, I ought to write a book, you know.
Oh, I love that line.
I say do it.
Well, you know, the problem with that is that books are not made of experiences, they're made of words.
And that's a different matter.
And, you know, if they were made of experiences, we'd all be novels.
You know, we'd all be writers.
But they're not.
They're made of words, and that's a different thing.
And what made me, you know, the way I wanted to become a writer was not because I had interesting experience, but because I was excited by what other writers were doing on the page.
That was what attracted me to being a writer.
was that I read, I was exposed to writing early, and what clicked in me was that I wanted to do what these guys were doing.
I didn't want to, you know, I mean, to some degree, I mean, you read certain kind of novels or something, and you may say, like, you know, like, whatever, you want to, you know, have experiences like Hemingway or something like that.
But I was much less interested in that than I was interested in this whole thing of having something come alive on a piece of paper.
Now, that was interesting.
That's a great quote.
And when you read other, do you read your contemporaries or do you read, who do you read for pleasure or do you read for pleasure?
And when you read, do you read more or less as a carpenter, you know, examining how the other guy builds the cabinet or something like that, you know?
Well, I don't think I can help but read like that, you know, I don't.
I don't read a whole lot of contemporary fiction.
I'm not really up on that very well.
I mean, once in a while something will catch my eye and I'll take a look at it to see what's going on.
I mean, there's certain contemporaries that I admire, you know, but poems I read constantly, all day, every day.
Really?
Yeah.
I mean, you know, I can give you a list of the people I'm reading now.
But it's always changing.
It's not necessary.
Charlie, I think we've done this for about 45 minutes, and I've got lots of stuff here.
Oh, good.
And I'll be writing this to go out next week.
Okay.
If I have any questions, I know you right now.
Don't bother you before 11 a.m., right?
Yeah.
If you've got any more questions, call me back.
Okay.
Well, what I'm going to do is transcribe this tape and go to work on this story, and I'll be moving it along next week.
And if I do have any specific questions, I will give you a call.
I shouldn't have any, but if I do, I'll give you a ring.
I can get a copy of what you do.
Sure.
Just give me an address, and I'll send it to you directly if you want, or a fax, or whatever.
Yeah, sure.
I mean, you know, whatever, because I don't get any of those, I don't take any of those newspapers, and so I hate for it to go by and not see it.
No, and I don't get all those newspapers either.
I send it out, but I will have a couple of copies, and I always send stuff to Ruth Wiener, but I'd be more than happy to, that'll be weeks before you get it, so why don't you just give me an address, and I'd be happy to send you a copy.
Okay.
My address is 23 Waverly Place.
It was just down there, like,
I'm in Worcester, actually.
I'm in Grafton, which is a... I gave a reading in Worcester last spring.
You did?
Where?
At the library, there's a poetry reading series at the library.
Oh, you know, they, okay, good, that's cool, yeah.
They have a great poetry association up here, you know.
Yeah, it was fun.
It was a very good experience.
Yeah, I mean, very, very supportive.
I mean, this is the, Stanley Kunitz is from Worcester, Elizabeth Bishop, Charles Olson, that's not bad.
Yeah.
A bad group of people coming from one city.
23 Waverly Place, NYC.
Say again.
6Z, the apartment number.
C as in Charlie or Z as in Zebra.
And the zip is 100... 10003.
Okay, good.
Okay.
All right.
And if I have any questions, I'll give you a call.
Yeah, well, thanks for doing that.
Well, I appreciate it.
You're taking the time to talk to me, and we'll talk again, I hope.
Okay.
Take care.
Bye-bye.